### PYTHONDEBUG
If this is set to a non-empty string it is equivalent to specifying the [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-d|-d]] option. If set to an integer, it is equivalent to specifying [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-d|-d]] multiple times.

This environment variable requires a [[3.3.8. Python Debug Build|debug build of Python]], otherwise it's ignored.
### PYTHONFAULTHANDLER
If this environment variable is set to non-empty string, [[faulthandler - Dump the Python traceback#`faulthandler.enable(file=sys.stderr, all_threads=True)`|faulthandler.enable( )]] is called at startup: install a handler for [[signal - Set handlers for asynchronous events#`signal.SIGSEGV`|SIGSEGV]], [[signal - Set handlers for asynchronous events#Module contents#`signal.SIGFPE`|SIGFPE]], [[signal - Set handlers for asynchronous events#Module contents#`signal.SIGABRT`|SIGABRT]], [[signal - Set handlers for asynchronous events#`signal.SIGBUS`|SIGBUS]] and [[signal - Set handlers for asynchronous events|SIGILL]] signals to dump the Python traceback. This is equivalent to [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-X|-X]] `faulthandler` option.
> *Added in version 3.3.* 
### PYTHONMALLOC
Set the Python memory allocators and/or install debug hooks.

Set the family of memory allocators used by Python:

- `default`: use the [[Memory Management#Default Memory Allocators|default memory allocators]].
- `malloc`: use the `malloc()` function of the C library for all domains ([[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW|PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW]], [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM|PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM]], [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ|PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ]]).
- `pymalloc`: use the [[Memory Management#The pymalloc allocator|pymalloc allocator]] for [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM|PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM]] and [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ|PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ]] domains use the `malloc()` function for the [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW|PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW]] domain.
- `mimalloc`: use the [[Memory Management#The mimalloc allocator|mimalloc allocator]] for [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM|PYMEM_DOMAIN_MEM]] and [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ|PYMEM_DOMAIN_OBJ]] domains and use the `malloc()` function for the [[Memory Management#PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW|PYMEM_DOMAIN_RAW]] domain.
Install [[Memory Management#Debug hooks on the Python memory allocators|debug hooks]]:
### PYTHONDEVMODE
If this environment variable is set to a non-empty string, enable [[Python Development Mode]], introducing additional runtime checks that are too expensive to be enabled by default. This is equivalent to setting the [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-X|-X]] dev option.
> *Added in version 3.7.* 