A debug build is Python built with the [[3.3.9 Debug options#`--with-pydebug`|--with-pydebug]] configure option.

Effects of a debug build:

- Display all warnings by default: the list of default warning filters is empty in the [[warnings - Warning control|warnings]] module.
- Add `d` to [[sys - System-specific parameters and functions#`sys.abiflags`|sys.abiflags]].
- Add `sys.gettotalrefcount()` function.
- Add [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-X|-X showrefcount]] command line option. 
- Add [[1.1.3. Miscellaneous options#-d|-d]] command line option and [[1.2. Environment variables#PYTHONDEBUG|PYTHONDEBUG]] environment variable to debug the parser.
- Add support for the `__lltrace__` variable: enable low-level tracing in the bytecode evaluation loop if the variable is defined.
- Install [[Memory Management#Default Memory Allocators|debug hooks on memory allocators]] to detect buffer overflow and other memory errors.
- Define `Py_DEBUG` and `Py_REF_DEBUG` macros.
- Add runtime checks: code surrounded by `#ifdef Py_DEBUG` and `#endif`. Enable `assert(...)` and `_PyObject_ASSERT(...)` assertions: don't set the `NDEBUG` macro (see also the [[3.3.9 Debug options#`--with-assertions`|--with-assertions]] configure option). Main runtime checks: 
	-  Add sanity checks on the function arguments.
	- Unicode and int objects are created with their memory filled with a pattern to detect usage of uninitialized objects.
	- Ensure that functions which can clear or replace the current exception are not called with an exception raised.
	- Check that deallocator functions don't change the current exception.
	- The garbage collector ([[gc - Garbage Collector interface#`gc.collect(generation-2)`|gc.collect( )]])